For anyone investing today,
crowdfunding is
a big change from how
companies have traditionally
tapped the retail markets.
Okay? But for an investor
who was investing
a 100 years ago,
who somehow got a peek at
what we're doing today,
some elements of it wouldn't
look so surprising.
Okay? So, the internet
would surprise them.
Okay that's true, but
companies going directly to
the retail market with
advertisements and
with in cautious language,
and celebrity endorsements, and
then just taking whatever money
they could raise that way, well,
this was pretty much
standard operating procedure
if you go back more
than a 100 years,
until it's an accumulation
of bad experiences and
a fraud here and there
started the regulatory
process at the state,
and then the federal
level that has given us
the protocol that we
follow now for tapping
the capital markets.
When I think about how we go to
the capital markets today and how
crowdfunding compares to that,
there's an English writer
also from about a 100 years ago,
one thing he said back
I think it was 1929,
he said and I paraphrase here,
before you tear a fence down,
make sure you know why it was
there in the first place.
All right. Before you
tear a fence down,
make sure you know why it was
there in the first place.
Right? So, crowdfunding is
tearing the fences down around
going to the retail public
and raising money,
and I see in some ways,
bringing us back to where
we were a long time ago.
Not in every way and it's
careful in some ways
but there's a sense in
which that's what's
going on. All right.
So, if we want to understand
what crowdfunding is,
how to think about
this new regulatory environment,
these new loosening of
regulations on
tapping this market,
it's worth first
seeing what it is,
what it is we're doing now in
the existing
regulatory environment
to facilitate raising money
from the retail public.
Okay. So let's think about
the traditional IPO,
Initial Public Offering IPO.
So, let's say you're
an entrepreneur and you've
been very successful.
You're so successful that
you're thinking now
it's time to go public.
Okay? Now I'm ready
to go out there and
sell a piece of my company
to the retail investor.
Okay? So how do I do this?
Well, the first thing I do is
I'm going to engage
an underwriter.
Okay? An underwriter. Now,
an underwriter is going to
be big investment bank.
I think Goldman Sachs,
that kind of bank.
I'm going to have
probably little contest
among investment banks.
We call it a bake off.
Right? Like someone's going
to try to come up
with the best muffin.
Right? That's what they did.
They call it a bake off in
the investment banking world,
where the different banks
come to me and
pitch to me how they're going
to take my company public.
How they think about my company,
think about the
valuation and so on.
They pitch to me.
I pick one of them
and say, "Okay.
It's going to be you and me.
We're going to take
my company public. "
Notice by the way here
that so now I'm engaging
a bank that goes to
the market all the time.
Right? If I engage Goldman.
Well, Goldman Sachs
does a lot of IPOs.
They've been doing IPOs all year.
They've got a reputation
with the capital markets
that I don't.
I'm just a start-up.
They haven't yet
heard of me probably
but they will and when
they hear about me,
it's not just me, it's also
Goldman Sachs or whoever
the bank is that I choose,
are sticking their neck
out for my reputation.
Right? So, we choose a bank with
a long track record of doing
IPOs and then what happens?
Okay. Now, we start the process
with the regulators.
Okay? So now, together
with the investment bank,
we're going to work up a draft
registration statement.
So, it's something like
a prospectus for an offering,
but it's a draft
and we send it to
the Securities and
Exchange Commission,
and they get the draft,
and they read it
every word by word,
and they send us back
a letter which is going
to have bullet points that
are going to go on for pages,
50, 60, 70, 80,
bullet points about
you say this here,
how do you know that, back it up,
scale back, take it out,
all these claims I want to make,
they are holding
me to task saying,
you back this up or
you take it out,
or you scale it back,
and I respond to all that.
So I see all these bullet points.
I send a new one,
they look at that.
More bullet points
back and forth,
could happen four or
five times. All right.
So, the document that
is ultimately going to be
presented to the public
has gone through
this very detailed scrutiny
by the regulators.
Okay? So then finally,
I submit that document
and that's going to
be for the world to see.
It's posted on the website
of the Securities
Exchange Commission.
Okay? So I post that document and
then we choose a price range.
We haven't quite
chosen a price yet,
which is a price range
could say we were thinking,
$14 to $16 and
maybe give us a sense of
how many shares
we're talking about.
I think maybe a 100 million
shares, $14 to $16.
So, we make that announcement and
then we go on the road show.
Okay? So now there's
a two week period
where the executives
of my company,
me and my lieutenants,
and also the investment bank,
and they're professionals,
and other people who are all
traveling around the country,
and we're going to go to
other countries too meeting
with the big
institutional investors,
where we are pitching
our story and defending
the price range
that we announced,
and they are going
to bicker with us.
We say what do you mean 14 to 16,
and they'll have
their own discussion of how
that price compares to
the price other stocks
are already trading at.
We're going to have
a lot of back and forth.
At the end of every meeting
with the investors,
they're going to express
their interest in the offering,
and when they express
their interest,
we're going to write
that down in a book.
It's called book building.
This is called a
book-building process
because at the end of every day,
at the end of every pitch
you're going to say,
you want shares or
don't want shares.
How many shares? What price?
I write it down,
and the book just builds,
and I hope to have
a lot more orders in
the book than I actually
have shares to sell.
I would keep doing
this, keep going,
keep on like two weeks of
this and then finally,
at the end of all that,
at the close of
trading on some day,
we say that's it,
we are going to
price the offering
and the price doesn't have
to be in that initial range,
it's going to be
somewhere around there.
We choose the price and we place
the shares with
investors at that price,
and then the next day
it starts trading.
Now one thing to
notice here if you're
a retail investor and you
see a company going public,
you see right now
the big talk as I'm
sitting here is LYFT,
the ride share service.
You're looking
that, "I love LYFT,
I want shares in the IPO,
I think this is going great.
Well, you probably won't get
shares. You probably won't.
The interaction on the road
is all with
institutional investors,
that's where they're focusing on.
If you have a brokerage account,
you tell your broker,
"Hey, get me some shares
in that LYFT IPO."
He might say, "Well, okay.
I'll see what I can do," alright.
Probably he'll come
back and say, "No, no.
You're not going to get
shares in the IPO."
If you are huge customer of
that brokerage, then yeah,
maybe if you've given a lot
business, he'll say, "Okay,
this is your lucky day, I'll give
you 200 shares,"
something like that.
But mostly what they're
going to say is,
"Just wait till it
starts trading.
You don't have to get them now,
you can get them when
they start trading."
So you can do that,
but let me just say a couple
of things about that.
Number one, when you
see a company go IPO
that offer price that they choose
tends to be a very juicy bargain.
On average, across all IPOs
going all the way
back to the 60s.
If you look at every IPO
and you do a little
thought experiment,
what if I invested at
every IPO at that offer
price they chose,
and then just held
it to the next day.
The first day it starts trading,
I just sell those shares I got.
This is just thought experiment.
If you look at what you
would have made would be
on average in one day 18 percent,
the one day you
return 18 percent.
That's an average
across the IPOs,
so you might look
at that and say,
"Oh my God, that's great.
It's hard to make five percent
in today's world,
this is 18 percent in one day."
But in fact, your broker
is not going to give
you the shares.
When he does give you
the shares, if he ever does,
if you're not a big
customer but he said,
"I can get you the IPO shares,
this is your lucky day.
I can get you the shares."
Not only that they're
a big bargain
because remember they
said 14 to 16 bucks?
Well, they're pricing
it at 12, right?
They've discounted it, and
I can get you shares
at that disk,
I can get you price shares at 12.
Well, in that case that
one is probably not
going up 18 percent,
that is the big red flag.
In fact in IPO world,
if they price it down
from the initial
price range they said
14 to 16 but on
the big day they decide
to price it at 12.
That's not going up 18 per
cent probably on average,
that means it's
probably going to go
nowhere in the first day.
It's the ones they price up
actually are the ones
that really do great.
So you're not going to get
it as a retail investor,
as a retail investor
you're not going to
get it on at IPO price.
You can buy it in the aftermarket
when it starts trading.
But actually, that tends
to be not a bargain
really at all.
In fact, it's
well-established that on
average if you look at stocks
that have gone public,
if you buy them on
the aftermarket where they're
trading on average over
the next couple of years,
there average return is
actually kind of
below the market.
IPO sort of under-perform once
they start trading for
a couple of years.
So it's not really that exciting
to get in on the IPO
in the aftermarket.
But of course you could
buy a stock that
goes to the moon.
If you bought Google or
Facebook or whatever
after their IPO,
that would be terrific if
you held onto those shares.
So obviously,
in any point you can buy
a winner stock but it's really
getting in at the IPO price
that is so attractive and as
a retail investor that's
not going to happen.
So that's just a sketch there
of how we go public, right.
There's a lot of
regulatory scrutiny with
all the documents that you
are presenting to the public.
You're engaging
an underwriter who has
tremendous experience
and reputation
with the capital markets.
So that's what it's like
for the its point of view,
from the retail
investors point of
view IPOs are fun to watch,
but it's not really
something that you're
going to participate in and
you can buy like anyone else,
you can buy it once
it starts trading.
So bear that in mind.
Here's one other
interesting fact,
which is that the number
of IPOs is way down.
So what I mean by that is,
when I started teaching
here at the Wharton School
since the mid 90s.
I've been here since the mid 90s,
the mid 90s number of
publicly listed companies
was over seven thousand,
that's like 7200 publicly
listed companies in the US.
That had been going
up and up and up
and it seemed as natural.
Well, of course it's just
going to keep going up
as the US population grows.
Naturally, you
think the number of
publicly listed
companies would grow.
So the number of
publicly listed companies is
today half of what it
was about 25 years ago,
so you think from
the retail investors' point
of view just the scope of choice.
Where am I going to put my money?
What are the opportunities
out there for
me to take a view
on some stocked to get in on
a ground floor to make
an exciting investment?
Well, it's half as many
stocks as they were,
and I think about
why that might be.
Well, of course it's easier for
companies to stay
private these days.
Think about Uber, I said LYFT.
LYFT is gone public while
Uber isn't and hasn't,
and they've been private for
a long time you could
think of a lot of
other companies like
them staying private.
You have a lot of companies also
that maybe was never
even their goal to
go public these days
that their goal is just to get
big enough maybe they'll
be a threat to Google,
or Facebook, or Apple
or some company like that and
then just sell out to them.
So by the time they're
ready to sell,
well they sell out to a big
company and you never even got
your chance because they just
sell out to public company,
that's for average they're
going to be a very small part.
Sort of the investment
opportunity set
has shrunk over the years,
and this has made life
more difficult for
the retail investor to put
their money to work in a way
that they find interesting
or promising or that they enjoy.
So just to summarize
what we've said here,
the status quo of
raising money from
the capital markets when you
go to the retail, public,
I do that through
the IPO process in which
the retail public really
barely plays any role at all.
I do this through
tight scrutiny by
the regulators through engaging
an underwriter with
a big reputation.
This has worked recently
well over the years but it's
also come way down as a part
of the capital markets,
many fewer IPOs than
there used to be,
many fewer publicly listed
companies that used to be.
That is the context in which
Congress rolled out
the Jobs Act of 2012.